The Joe Rogan.
Experience. You guys have put together is pretty remarkable. Cause thank you.
The food there is so good. It's kind, it's kind of ridiculous.
Like your pasta's got voodoo in it. I don't know what you're doing.
It is voodoo and I guess it's because it's handmade, right? Because, uh, one,
the first time my wife and I ate there, we sat right next to the,
that open area where you can watch yeah. You guys make the pasta and it's, uh,
such a painstaking process. And you, you realize you really,
truly appreciate that. It's an art form, you know,
that like making stuff like that, like cutting no corners,
making it as good as it could possibly taste. Well.
That, I mean,
that's the ultimate goal is to create that extra between pasta maker and someone
who's eating the pasta.
Like if you look through the glass and you see a pasti or pasti in there
banging.
Out what's difference, a pasti and past.
Is male gender. Yeah. <laugh> so, you know, they're banging out trophy,
which is like a coil from Lauria and you look down to your plate and there's
like a and 60 to 180 pieces in your pipe. You're like,
this guy's rep this. He's got pictures of it.
This guy's doing 180 reps just for me. Mm that's a connection.
And once you get it, sometimes a bull pasta is a bull pasta. I get it.
But this is something different. This is, this is craft. This is tradition.
This is continuing this conversation of that's been passed on from
generation to generation. Uh, and all I'm doing,
all we're doing at at Felix is just a small spoke in a, in a,
in a massive wheel of, of Italian culinary tradition. Well.
You know, just exactly how long to cook it too, which is amazing.
Like the I'm maniacal, Joe. I get it, man.
You must be cuz the, just the way your teeth sink into it, it's like,
everything is amazing.
I like to call toothsome.
ENT. That's what aldente means to the.
Tooth. Is that what it means? Dental. Oh, oh, okay. Yeah.
Toothsome toothsome toothsome so that's part of the experience, right?
Is the right amount of chew, just right. Amount of chew and.
Each pasta satisfying each pastas cooked region specific cuz they
cook pasta very different in Naples versus Rome versus bologna versus versus is
the difference. Yeah, it's just preference. It's based on tradition.
And the thing is this authenticity is very personal, right?
Your mom makes macaroni and cheese with Veda.
My mom makes macaroni and cheese with till MC cheddar that authentic to me.
It may not be authentic to you. Italy's no different,
but the differences in the diversity are so specific,
not only per region, but town and then house to house.
And it's, it's been that way for thousands of years.
That's why I think Italian food next to Chinese food is the most
diverse there is. Mm.
And you could literally study your whole life and not even scratch the surface.
Yeah. Not.
Not every,
not every chef operates from being an artist and there's different levels of
food. Um, I do have to say, you know, Evan is an absolute master, you know,
he's, Evan's obviously not Italian, um,
but has studied all over Italy and it's really the dying art of handmade
pasta. And Evan is a custodian of keeping this art alive.
Like a he's a, he's unbelievable. Is.
There a specific type of flower that.
You use? Uh, we import six different types from four different regions.
And now is the word about pasta and about bread
and wheat in general is that American wheat is a different kind of wheat.
It's, it's a different kind of wheat. It's also processed completely different.
I don't, I don't use a lot of American wheat just because it's,
it's just been manipulated so much. And a lot of the,
the digestibility of, uh, in my opinion,
people are gonna freak out. But in my opinion,
the amount of work that goes into Dena past or to get it
flat via machine has a lot to do with its digestibility.
Just like sourdough bread is more digestible because it's broken down in a
different way.
The handmade pasta is less manipulated than machine made
pasta in my opinion. So, um, also the, the types of wheat,
the amount of wheat Germans in it, the new traditional value, it all has to do,
uh, with those elements within the, in the flower. And to be honest,
like I've developed a, uh,
a gluten intolerance because I've been breathing raw flower for the past,
you know, 12 years. Oh really?
As soon as I step in step foot in the lab and I start rolling a APH Follia,
my stomach, just start its acid straight up. That's crazy.
Just from the breathing RO yeah. Wow. Cause it's like, Taal, you know,
double zero flowers, extremely fine. So we have to throw it in order to,
you know, put some on the table to roll it out.
So you breathe it in all day long and we've got distrac, we've got, you know,
humidity control and air conditioning and all that, but still.
But so you've developed an intolerance because of that. Yeah. It's.
Called white. It's called white lung or Baker's lung.
Baker's lung. Yeah. So do you wear a mask? Uh.
I do not. Why don't you wear a mask? Um, I don't know. Suck it like,
well, like I dunno, you know, seems like that.
Would be a good thing to do. Sure. But you don't want that Baker's lung on,
right?
I don't, I, I don't like masks. Oh, okay. This.
Whole experience.
This whole experience is very, has been very enlightening wearing a mask, right?
Yeah. It's gross. I, I have another friend who also has a, a Koka who's, uh,
instrumental in my kind of understanding of uh, of modern. I met him in Balog,
a Japanese guy who has a lab in Tokyo called uh, bass.
And he has the same thing. He wears a mask all the time.
Cuz he's just breathing in raw flour all day.
I never would've thought of that, but it makes total sense. I never thought,
oh yeah. Hmm. Yeah. I, you flower. It's like a guy works at a,
a paint shop. Like you're gonna get sick.
You gotta get one of the painter things. <laugh> the big tubes.
That'd be so weird. People be like, I'm not eating that pasta.
I don't know for me. It's.
Part of, it's part.
Of the experience. It's crazy. What's in there. It's preservatives, man. Well,
whatever you're doing, keep doing it. We want whether it's the white lung,
whatever you gotta clean that out. Whatever it takes. I.
Don't know what you can do to get that. Can't stop.
Won't stop baker around of you.
Just keep going. Yeah. It's just the pasta's insane. It's so good.
It's and it's such a,
when you have really good pasta and then you have pasta that maybe you enjoyed
before you had the really good pasta. It's like, it's really,
it's like having one water in your ear. Like you think that's it people up.
Yeah. It people up. It.
Does. I'm sure. I've like,
I cannot tell you how many people DM me or come to me into the restaurant.
They say you've completely ruined me. Thank you so much.
Now I can't eat pasta anywhere else.
And I don't eat pasta in north America whatsoever.
I don't eat fresh pasta north America. I only eat past in Italy.
I dried past America, but I don't eat fresh pasta. Why.
Not?
Most people don't know what they're doing, but.
There's gotta be some people other than.
You guys. Certainly. Absolutely. Like.
What are good spots?
Like if you, Ms. Robbins is, is exceptional. It's.
New York city. Oh, Brooklyn, Brooklyn. Oh, okay. all the way to Brooklyn.
Um, you know, Rob gent in Toronto is great.
So there's a very small amount of people that are doing it. I mean.
There, there's a handful of people who make pasta by hand period and
even fewer people who know how to make pasta with the mozzarella,
which is the long rolling pin <affirmative> even fewer. And when I started,
I started doing this 11 years ago, there was nobody, there was nobody.
I checked, you know,
I moved to bologna in 2007 tail in 2007 and started this journey
with, uh, my Matra,
Alessandro SQUI Y and she kind of opened up the door for me to start
seeking out other pasta makers throughout Italy.
And when I came back in oh eight,
I ran a restaurant called rustic canyon for about four years. And you know,
not a lot of people were serving the style of pasta that I wanted to serve.
So I started giving it away like a gateway drug <laugh> I was just like,
send it to tables for free. And then like, what the?
<laugh> and it just started gaining momentum, gaining momentum. Wow. So.
So when you moved to Italy to, to learn how to do, like what,
what is an apprenticeship like in, you know, learning how to make pasta?
I mean, it's an apprenticeship. You have to put yourself in the,
in the student's chair and, and be as sponge. I didn't speak any,
not a lick of Italian. Um, but the Italians are very expressive.
So you're able to communicate through just being Italian, I guess. And um,
I spent three months, you know, six days a week, 10 hours a day,
just making pasta. Wow. Period.
See, this is what's fascinating to me. Things, you just, you,
you just take for granted, oh, here is a plate of pasta, like, but what,
what is involved in learning how to make it that good.
It's not just ingredients. When people sit down at a, at a restaurant,
people aren't paying for,
for the experience of sitting there and the cost of food, they're,
they're paying for the experience of the people that are making the food.
Mm that's a big part of it. That's the way that I look at it.
And 11 years of making pasta by hand,
there's a lot of depth that some of the younger guys
just aren't willing to pay the time cost. Mm.
And a lot of the younger cooks out there.
They bounce around from job to job six months here, three months here.
And they think that they've mastered it, but there's just no depth.
There's no depth.
You know, you have to also consider how labor intensive it is to, you know,
hand roll out the pasta. And you know what Evan was saying before,
like each one rolled by hand, you know, when you, when you eat a bowl of pasta,
you're not thinking that each one was like pressed out by hand.
So it's like extremely labor intensive.
And a lot of people when we were opening, um,
Evan did have his own restaurant BCA before, which was also, um,
a basically focused around pasta as a, well, that's a whole other story.
Um,
but when we were going to open up this restaurant and we put in the middle of
the restaurant, the temperature controlled pasta lab, which is taking up tables.
So if you're a business person, a restaurant tour,
you say how many tables could fit in there?
How much is each table worth to your, your bottom line?
You're using up that space to put in using that space to put in a
pasta lab. Are you crazy? Um, also, you know, when you're thinking about,
you know, training the people and how labor intensive it is,
people were saying like, we're, we're crazy doing, doing this.
Again. Yeah. They don't think we could make money. Yeah.
Well, it is a lot of space that pasta lab is a big space,
but it's so cool to be sitting. Right, right there. It's a show stopper. Yeah.
It really it's. It's something special.